Added verifier abstraction section (#152)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

For example, it is expected that the resources used during the initialisation
phase can be amortised across multiple appraisals.

## Verifier Abstraction

This document assumes Verifier implementations may differ.
To facilitate description of normative Verifier behavior,
this document uses abstract representation of Verifier internals.

* Claim: A piece of information, in the form of a key-value pair.
* Environment Measurement Tuple (EMT): A structure containing a set of environment
Claims that describe a Target Environment and a set of measurement Claims that
describe attributes of the Target Environment.

> * possible state: Claims that describe various alternative forms of a Target Environment.

Author: ```suggestion
* reference state: Claims that describe various alternative forms of a Target Environment.
```

> * reference state: Claims that describe various alternative forms of a Target Environment.

Author: ```suggestion
* reference state: Claims that describe various alternative states of a Target Environment.
```

Reference Values Claims typically describe various possible states due to versioning,
manufactruing practices, or supplier configuration options.

> * actual state: Claims that describe a snapshot of the state of a Target Environment instance.

Author: ```suggestion
* actual state: Claims that describe a Target Environment instance at a given point in time.
```

For example, it is expected that the resources used during the initialisation
phase can be amortised across multiple appraisals.

> ## Verifier Abstraction

Reviewer: Thank you for the text. I am wondering perhaps this paragraph fits more logically at start (i.e. Line 1284) before we start enumerating phases of Verification ?

Author: Either location works for me

This document assumes Verifier implementations may differ.
To facilitate description of normative Verifier behavior,
this document uses abstract representation of Verifier internals.

> * Claim: A structure that has a key-value pairing.

Reviewer 2: Blocking issue: this must be RFC 9334 definitions where possible/feasible

Reviewer 2: > A piece of asserted information, often in the form of a name/value pair. Claims make up the usual structure of Evidence and other RATS conceptual messages. Compare: claim [[RFC7519](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519)].

> * Claim: A structure that has a key-value pairing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Claim: A key-value pairing encoding information.
```

* Environment Measurement Tuple (EMT): A structure containing a set of environment
Claims that describe a Target Environment and a set of measurement Claims that
describe attributes of the Target Environment.

> * possible state: Claims that describe various alternative forms of a Target Environment.

Reviewer 2: Maybe should inherit `intended state` here? (there can be various allowed intended states)

Reviewer 2: See below: following Dave's wording for now.

> Reference Values Claims typically describe various possible states due to versioning,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference Values Claims are typically attributes of the Target Environment that describe various possible states due to versioning,
```

manufactruing practices, or supplier configuration options.

> * actual state: Claims that describe a Target Environment instance,

Reviewer 2: Maybe current `operational state`?

Borrowing from https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8342.html#section-3 could possibly help here, in general.

> * actual state: Claims that describe a Target Environment instance,

Reviewer 2: In the editor's discussion today, incorporating terminology from https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-dthaler-rats-endorsements-02.html was brought up as a prominent option. This requires a sync with Dave.

> given some constraining context, such as a point in time or a network connection.

Reviewer 2: Seems a bit too vague for my taste (allows for a lot of interpretation)

> given some constraining context, such as a point in time or a network connection.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> given some constraining context, such as a point in time or a network connection.

Author: draft-dthaler-rats-endorsements also uses 'point in time' in the definition. It uses "the "Attester" language which implies an entity instance. Maybe that is good enough here too?

> given some constraining context, such as a point in time or a network connection.

Reviewer 4: > draft-dthaler-rats-endorsements also uses 'point in time' in the definition. It uses "the "Attester" language which implies an entity instance. Maybe that is good enough here too?

I'm happy aligning with draft-thaler.  I'd also be happy with something like:

> _actual state: Claims that describe a Target Environment instance at a given point in time._

Endorsed Values and Evidence typically are Claims about actual state.

> * Group: The scope in which Evidence, Reference Values, Endorsed Values and Appraisal Policy
> are applied.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Group: A set of Evidence, Reference Values, Endorsed Values and Appraisal Policy which
are processed together.
```

Reviewer 2: We can use this "Group definition" as a placeholder for now. Andrew noted that a better term is needed.

An Attester may be composed of multiple components, where each component may
represent a scope of appraisal.

> * Authority: Provenance linking a Claim to the entity that asserted it.

Reviewer 4: _(non-native speaker comment)_

I am not sure I understand "Provenance" in and by itself.  Maybe: "Provenance statement" or "Provenance assertion".

> * Authority: Provenance linking a Claim to the entity that asserted it.

Author: ```suggestion
* Authority: The entity asserting that a claim is true.
```

Typically, a Claim is asserted using a cryptographic key to digitally sign the Claim. A cryptographic key can be a proxy for a human or organizational entity.
* Accepted Claims Set (ACS): A structure that holds EMT Claims that have been vetted

> following the appraisal process. The ACS describes the actual state of an Attesster that has been vetted by appraisal policy. The ACS keeps track of a Claim's authority.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
following the appraisal process. The ACS describes the actual state of an Attester that has been vetted by Appraisal Policy. The ACS also keeps track of a Claim's authority.
```

> * Appraisal Policy: A description of the conditions, that if met, allow acceptance

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Appraisal Policy: A description of the conditions that, if met, allow acceptance
```
